Refresh how-to-make-thread-safe-calls-to-windows-forms-controls.md (#10761)
dotnet/docs: docs/framework/winforms/controls/how-to-make-thread-safe-calls-to-windows-forms-controls.md

Multithreading can improve the performance of Windows Forms apps, but access to Windows Forms controls is not inherently thread safe. Multithreading can expose your code to very serious and complex bugs. Two or more threads manipulating a control can force the control into an inconsistent state and lead to race conditions, deadlocks, and freezes or hangs. Before you implement multithreading in your app, see [Managed threading best practices](../../../../docs/standard/threading/managed-threading-best-practices.md). Be sure to call cross-thread controls in a thread-safe way. 

There are two ways to safely call a Windows Forms control from a thread that did not create that control. You can use the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Invoke%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to call a delegate created in the main thread, which calls the control. Or, you can implement a <xref:System.ComponentModel.BackgroundWorker?displayProperty=nameWithType> component, which uses an event-driven model to separate work done in the background thread from reporting on the results. The following article and code examples describe both approaches. 

## Unsafe cross-thread calls

> It is unsafe to call a control directly from a thread that did not create it. The following code snippet illustrates an unsafe call to the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox?displayProperty=nameWithType> control. The button click event handler creates a new `Unsafe` thread, which sets the main thread's <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Text%2A> property directly. 

Author: @rpetrusha - Thanks. This was also called out by the peer reviewer v-dele.

> ```csharp

Reviewer: Since this example is unsafe, it should be left as inline code.

    TextBox1.Text = "This text was set unsafely."
End Sub
```

The Visual Studio debugger detects these unsafe thread calls by raising an <xref:System.InvalidOperationException> with the message, **Cross-thread operation not valid. Control "" accessed from a thread other than the thread it was created on.** The <xref:System.InvalidOperationException> exception occurs reliably during Visual Studio debugging, and may occur at runtime. Although you should fix the issue, you can disable the exception by setting the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.CheckForIllegalCrossThreadCalls%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> property to `false`.

## Safe cross-thread calls 

The following code examples demonstrate two ways to safely call a Windows Forms control from a thread that did not create it: 
- The <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Invoke%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method, which calls a delegate created in the main thread to call the control. 
- A <xref:System.ComponentModel.BackgroundWorker?displayProperty=nameWithType> component, which uses an event-driven model. 

In both examples, the background thread sleeps for one second to simulate work being done in that thread. 

> You can build and run these examples as .NET Framework apps from the C# or Visual Basic command line. For more information, see [Command-line building with csc.exe](../../../csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/command-line-building-with-csc-exe.md) or [Build from the command line](../../../visual-basic/reference/command-line-compiler/building-from-the-command-line.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build and run these examples as .NET Framework apps from the C# or Visual Basic command line. For more information, see [Command-line building with csc.exe](../../../csharp/language-reference/compiler-options/command-line-building-with-csc-exe.md) or [Build from the command line (Visual Basic)](../../../visual-basic/reference/command-line-compiler/building-from-the-command-line.md). 
```

Starting with .NET Core 3.0, you can also build and run the examples as Windows .NET Core apps from a folder that has a .NET Core Windows Forms *\<folder name>.csproj* project file. 

## Example: Use the Invoke method with a delegate

The following example demonstrates a pattern for ensuring thread-safe calls to a Windows Forms control. First, query the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.InvokeRequired%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> property, which compares the control's creating thread ID to the calling thread ID. If the thread IDs are the same, call the control directly. If the thread IDs are different, call the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Invoke%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method with a delegate from the main thread, which makes the actual call to the control.

> The code example provides a `SafeCall` delegate that enables setting the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Text%2A> property, and a `SafeText` method that queries <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.InvokeRequired%2A>. If <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.InvokeRequired%2A> returns `true`, `SafeText` passes the `SafeCall` delegate to the form's <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Invoke%2A> method to make the actual call to the control. If <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.InvokeRequired%2A> returns `false`, `SafeText` sets the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Text%2A> directly. The button click event handler creates a new worker thread that runs the `SafeText` method. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example provides a `SafeCall` delegate that enables setting the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Text%2A> property, and a `SafeText` method that queries <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.InvokeRequired%2A>. If <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.InvokeRequired%2A> returns `true`, `SafeText` passes the `SafeCall` delegate to the form's <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Invoke%2A> method to make the actual call to the control. If <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.InvokeRequired%2A> returns `false`, `SafeText` sets the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox.Text?displayProperty=nameWithType> directly. The button click event handler creates a new worker thread that runs the `SafeText` method. 
```

```csharp
using System;
using System.Drawing;
using System.Threading;
using System.Windows.Forms;

public class InvokeThreadSafeForm : Form
{
    private delegate void SafeCallDelegate(string text);
    private Button button1;
    private TextBox textBox1;
    private Thread thread2 = null;

    [STAThread]
    static void Main()
    {
        Application.SetCompatibleTextRenderingDefault(false);
        Application.EnableVisualStyles();
        Application.Run(new InvokeThreadSafeForm());
    }
    public InvokeThreadSafeForm()
    {
        button1 = new Button
        {
            Location = new Point(15, 55),
            Text = "Set text safely"
        };
        button1.Click += new EventHandler(Button1_Click);
        textBox1 = new TextBox
        {
            Location = new Point(15, 15),
            Size = new Size(240, 20)
        };
        Controls.Add(button1);
        Controls.Add(textBox1);
    }

>     private void SafeText(string text)

Reviewer: Add a blank line before each method definition (SafeText, SetText, Button1_Click).

    {
        if (textBox1.InvokeRequired)
        {
            var d = new SafeCallDelegate(SafeText);
            Invoke(d, new object[] { text });
        }
        else
        {
            textBox1.Text = text;
        }
    }
    private void SetText()
    {
        SafeText("This text was set safely.");
    }
    private void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
    {
        thread2 = new Thread(new ThreadStart(SetText));
        thread2.Start();
        Thread.Sleep(1000);
    }
}
```

```vb
Imports System.Drawing
Imports System.Threading
Imports System.Windows.Forms

Public Class InvokeThreadSafeForm : Inherits Form

    Public Shared Sub Main()
        Application.SetCompatibleTextRenderingDefault(False)
        Application.EnableVisualStyles()
        Dim frm As New InvokeThreadSafeForm()
        Application.Run(frm)
    End Sub

    Dim WithEvents Button1 As Button
    Dim TextBox1 As TextBox
    Dim Thread2 as Thread = Nothing

>     Delegate Sub SafeCallDelegate([text] As String)

Reviewer: I don't think that brackets around `text` are necessary; make sure the example compiles without them and, if it does, remove them here and elsewhere.

Author: @rpetrusha - It does compile without the brackets and I have removed them.
